#!/usr/bin/perl -w

=head1 NAME

ftpsync - synchronize a local dir with a dir on an FTP server.


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ftpsync> [ -cdfghinlpqstv ] localdir remoteURL

B<ftpsync> [ -cdfghinlpqstv ] remoteURL localdir


=head1 DESCRIPTION

GNU FTPsync synchronizes a local dir to a remote URL.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 9

=item I<localdir>

The local dir to synchronize.


=item I<remoteURL>

The URL of the FTP server. The URL can contain username password:
ftp://username:password@ftpserver/dir


=item B<-c>

Prompt the user about whether to run each command line and read a line
from the terminal.  Only run the command line if the response starts
with 'y' or 'Y'.


=item B<-d>

Turns debug output (including verbose output) on.


=item B<-f>

Flat operation, no subdir recursion.


=item B<-g>

Forces sync direction to GET (remote to local).


=item B<-h>

Prints out help text.


=item B<-i>

Forces info mode, only telling what would be done.


=item B<-n>

No deletion of obsolete files or directories.


=item B<-l>

Follow local symbolic links as if they were directories.


=item B<-p>

Forces sync direction to PUT (local to remote).


=item B<-q>

Turns quiet operation on.


=item B<-s>

Turns timestamp comparison off (only checks for changes in size).


=item B<-t>

Turns timestamp setting for local files off.


=item B<-v>

Turns verbose output on.


=item I<cfg=>

Read parameters and options from file defined by value.


=item I<ftpserver=>

Defines the FTP server, defaults to "localhost".


=item I<ftpdir=>

Defines the FTP directory, defaults to "." (/wo '"').


=item I<ftpuser=>

Defines the FTP user, defaults to "ftp".


=item I<ftppasswd=>

Defines the FTP password, defaults to "anonymous".


=item I<ignoremask=>

Defines a regexp to ignore certain files, like .svn.


=item I<slowmillis=>

Sleeps speficed # of ms between PUTs, default 100, 0=off.


=item I<timeoffset=>

Overrules clocksync() detection with given offset in seconds.


=back


=head1 EXAMPLE: Copying a dir to an FTP server

GNU FTPsync can synchronize a local dir to an FTP server,

B<ftpsync mydir ftp://user:password@ftp.example.com/remote/dir>


=head1 EXAMPLE: Copying an FTP server to a local dir

GNU FTPsync can synchronize an FTP server to a local dir,

B<ftpsync ftp://user:password@ftp.example.com/remote/dir mydir>


=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over 9

=item $FTPSYNC

The environment variable $FTPSYNC is used for ???

=item $TMPDIR

Directory for temporary files used for time synchronization.


=back


=head1 CONFIG FILE

The file ~/.ftpsync/config 

=head1 EXIT STATUS

=over 6

=item 0

Copying finished with no errors.

=item 1

Unknown options.

=item 2

Some copying failed.

=item 255

Other error.

=back


=head1 BUGS

FTPsync cannot synchronize between two remote FTPURLs.


=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Report bugs to <bug-ftpsync@gnu.org> or
https://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?func=additem&group=ftpsync

Your bug report should always include:

=over 2

=item *

The error message you get (if any).

=item *

The output of B<ftpsync --version>. If you are not running the latest
released version you should specify why you believe the problem is not
fixed in that version.

=item *

A complete example that others can run that shows the problem.

=item *

The output of your example. If your problem is not easily reproduced
by others, the output might help them figure out the problem.

=back

If you suspect the error is dependent on your environment or
distribution, please see if you can reproduce the error on one of
these VirtualBox images:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/virtualboximage/files/

Specifying the name of your distribution is not enough as you may have
installed software that is not in the VirtualBox images.

If you cannot reproduce the error on any of the VirtualBox images
above, you should assume the debugging will be done through you. That
will put more burden on you and it is extra important you give any
information that help.


=head1 AUTHOR

Copyright (C) 2009,2010,2011,2012,2013 Christoph Lechleitner

Copyright (C) 2013 Ole Tange, http://ole.tange.dk and Free Software
Foundation, Inc.


=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2009,2010,2011,2012,2013 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
at your option any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=head2 Documentation license I

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this documentation
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the file fdl.txt.

=head2 Documentation license II

You are free:

=over 9

=item B<to Share>

to copy, distribute and transmit the work

=item B<to Remix>

to adapt the work

=back

Under the following conditions:

=over 9

=item B<Attribution>

You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or
licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or
your use of the work).

=item B<Share Alike>

If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute
the resulting work only under the same, similar or a compatible
license.

=back

With the understanding that:

=over 9

=item B<Waiver>

Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from
the copyright holder.

=item B<Public Domain>

Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain under
applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license.

=item B<Other Rights>

In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license:

=over 2

=item *

Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable
copyright exceptions and limitations;

=item *

The author's moral rights;

=item *

Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in
how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.

=back

=back

=over 9

=item B<Notice>

For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the
license terms of this work.

=back

A copy of the full license is included in the file as cc-by-sa.txt.


=head1 DEPENDENCIES

GNU FTPsync uses Perl, and the Perl modules Getopt::Long, File::Temp,
File::Find, File::Listing, Net::FTP, Net::Cmd, Net::Netrc, and
IO::Handle.


=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ftp>(1), B<rsync>(1).

=cut
